## Add 2018 ACS 1-year data to totalcensus
The 2018 ACS 1-year data was released on 9/26/2019.

### Download data

#### Download Sequence Number/Table Number Lookup file in text format

- [Download from here](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/summary-file-documentation.2018.html)
- Save the file to `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/` and rename it as `ACS_1yr_Seq_Table_Number_Lookup_2018.txt`. 

#### Download Appendices file in xls format

- Same download website.
- Save the file to the same directory as `ACS_2018_SF_1YR_Appendices.xls`



### Create datasets

Try to finish all sections in one R session. If have to restart a R session, rebuild the package to make use of the new dataset.1

#### Create acs file table lookup dataset

- In `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_file_table_lookup.R`, add a line of code `lookup_acs1year_2018 <- make_acs_lookup(1, 2018)` and run it. A `.RData` file will be added into `totalcensus/data/`. After this step, the new data will be usable. You can rebuild the package and use the data. 
- In `totalcensus/R/data_acs.R`, add documentation for the new dataset `lookup_acs1year_2018` following the format in the file.

#### Create acs table dictionary dataset

- In `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_table_dictionary.R`  find the block `#acs1 ===` , change the `latest_year` to 2018 and run the code of this block.
- Update the documentation for `dict_acs1_table` in `totalcensus/R/data.acs.R` by adding one line `\item{acs1_2018}{whether the table is available in 2018}`. 

#### Create_acs geocomponent dictionary dataset

- In `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_geocomponent_dictionary.R` find the block `# acs1year geocomponent ======` and add a line `S2018 <- generate_geocomponent("acs1", 2018)`. Run this line and compare `S2018` to `S2017`. As they are the same, no further action is needed for this dataset.
- No documentation update needed.

#### Create acs summary level dictionary dataset

- In `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_summary_level_dictionary.R` do the same thing as above. The result is the same so no further action needed.

####  Create acs geoheader dictionary dataset

- The file is `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/ create_acs_geoheader_dictionary.R`. However, first check if the 2018 geoheaders are the same as the 2017 ones. The 2018 geoheaders can be found in the technical documentation (table 2.4 [here](https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2019/acs/acs_summary-file_handbook_2019_ch02.pdf)). Do nothing as they are the same.

  

### Check the update

#### Rebuild the package

- Update the `DESCRIPTION` file:
  - Version: 0.6.2
  - Date: 2019-09-28
- Restart R and rebuild the package
- Check package for cran, fix notes

