## Add 2019 ACS 5-year data to totalcensus
The 2019 ACS 5-year data was released on 12/10/2020.

### Download data

#### Download Sequence Number/Table Number Lookup file in text format

- [Download from here](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/summary-file-documentation.2019.html)
- Save the file to `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/` and rename it as `ACS_5yr_Seq_Table_Number_Lookup_2019.txt`. 

#### Download Appendices file in xls format

- Same download website.
- Save the file to the same directory as `ACS_2019_SF_5YR_Appendices.xlsx`. The Census Bureau changed the format from `xls` to `xlsx` in 2019. In case having trouble reading the file using readxl::read_excel, delete the second sheet.

### Create datasets

Try to finish all sections in one R session. If have to restart a R session, rebuild the package to make use of the new dataset.

#### Create acs file table lookup dataset

- In the block `ACS 5 year ===` in `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_file_table_lookup.R`, add a line of code `lookup_acs5year_2019 <- make_acs_lookup(5, 2019)` and update `totalcensus:::generate_acs5_tablecontents_()` function. A `.RData` file will be added into `totalcensus/data/`. After this step, the new data will be usable. You can rebuild the package and use the data. 
- In `totalcensus/R/data_acs.R`, add documentation for the new dataset `lookup_acs5year_2019` following the format in the file.

#### Create acs table dictionary dataset

- In `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_table_dictionary.R`  find the block `# acs5 ===` , change the `latest_year` to 2019 and run the code of this block.
- Update the documentation for `dict_acs5_table` in `totalcensus/R/data.acs.R` by adding one line `\item{acs5_2019}{whether the table is available in 2019}`. 

#### Create_acs geocomponent dictionary dataset

- In `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_geocomponent_dictionary.R` find the block `# acs5year geocomponent ======` and add a line `S2019 <- generate_geocomponent("acs5", 2019)`. Run this line (will download data) and compare `S2019` to `S2018`. As they are the same, no further action is needed for this dataset.
- No documentation update needed.

#### Create acs summary level dictionary dataset

- In `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_summary_level_dictionary.R` do the same thing as above. The result is the same so no further action needed.

####  Create acs geoheader dictionary dataset

- The file is `totalcensus/data_raw/acs/create_acs_geoheader_dictionary.R`. However, first check if the 2019 geoheaders are the same as the 2018 ones. The 2019 geoheaders can be found in the technical documentation (table 2.4 [here](https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2019/acs/acs_summary-file_handbook_2019_ch02.pdf)). Do nothing as they are the same since 2011.

### Check the update

#### Rebuild the package

- Update the `DESCRIPTION` file:
  - Version: 0.6.5
  - Date: 2020-12-10
- Restart R and rebuild the package
- Check package for cran, fix notes

#### Run test files under directory 'test/'
- test_data_consistency_over_years.R

### Submit to CRAN
- update README.md
- create source package and submit
